Hi, this is the first movie
in the classification series.
I'm David Forsyth from the University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
So what is classification?
As I go through these movies,
you'll get used to this habit of mine of
sticking up little pieces of the notes.
Why?
I wrote the notes because they allow me to
emphasize things that I
want you to remember.
And you should think of these movies as
ways of helping you go through the notes.
So what is a classifier?
It's a thing that accepts a set of
features, and it produces a label.
They're trained on labeled examples.
But what I want is not to do well
at labeled examples that I know,
because I already know the answer.
What I want to do is
to do well at runtime.
Of course, to be able to train it, the
data that I see at training time should
look, in some sense that I'm
going to be vague and weasely about,
rather like future data.
So what does this definition do for us?
It really is anything that accepts
a description of an object.
I will think of that as a feature vector.
And it's not even necessarily a vector,
inasmuch as I might not be able to add and
subtract them.
It's a tuple of features,
and it'll make a label.
This idea is hugely general and useful.
You run into classifiers all the time.
So for example, the credit card company
has some kind of classification
procedure that sits in the back
of some office somewhere.
And every time you try and pay for
something with a credit card,
it tries to figure out whether it's you
and you should be allowed to do it, or
it is some naughty person
who should be stopped.
Many people watching these videos will
have had the following experience.
If you go and
buy gasoline with your credit card and
then immediately afterwards go and
buy something expensive and frivolous,
then you get a phone number.
You might get the second transaction
declined, if you're really lucky.
But you might also get a phone call
from your credit card people saying,
what's going on?
Why?
Because if you steal a credit card,
the best way to check that it
still works is to buy gas with it.
And once you've done that,
you should go out and
buy something frivolous that you can sell.
Credit card companies know this, and
part of the classification procedure is
to watch out for that sort of behavior.
I'm sure there are other things as well.
Here's another example.
Should this program be allowed to run?
These days, when you download a program,
usually you operate as a classifier.
You download the program,
you try and run it.
If your operating system is reasonably
modern, it then says to you,
I don't trust this program
because you downloaded it,
and it's probably
going to wreck your disk.
And you then press a button saying,
I don't care, it's my fault.
You're operating as a classifier,
should it run, should it not run.
There are buildings in the South Bay
in the Bay Area full of
people who write classifiers or
improve classifiers to
determine whether a picture is naughty or
not.
You can use your own
definition of naughty, but
it usually involves the idea
that it might shock someone.
Why?
Because people place advertising
on web pages automatically.
And there are advertisers who do not want
their products placed next to pictures
that might shock someone.
So it's very valuable and
very useful to be able to say,
this picture might distress or
offend or shock somebody.
And you want to be able
to do that automatically.
Here's another.
I'm an automated vehicle, I'm driving
around, a bad situation develops.
And I should either keep going forward or
take a quick turn to try and
avoid something, which might be dangerous.
The road might be wet or slippery.
Question, the thing in front of me, is it
something I can run over, like a squirrel?
I might regret it, but it's not
going to lead to any serious trouble.
Or is it something I cannot run over,
like a child?
Is this person sick?
You can abstract doctors as classifiers.
They take a bunch of features,
and then they produce a label.
What disease does this person have?
Now they produce more kinds of labels.
Okay, so the idea is extremely useful and
extremely general.
What do we do with it?
Well, before we can talk sense about
how to build particular classifiers,
what we're going to need is a vocabulary.
So the first thing to think about is
what kind of labels are we going to use.
A very important and very common kind
of classifier is known as a binary
classifier, and it has two labels,
binary for two.
The labels could be 1 or -1, or 1 or
0, you can turn one into the other very
easily, or true or false, or whatever.
There are some methods that just sort of
naturally produce binary classifiers.
Other methods produce other
kinds of classifiers.
But the binary classifier is
a really important example.
A multi-class classifier produces
multiple different labels.
The labels could be ordinal in the sense
of one, two, three, four, five.
Or they could be incomparable, so
if you say something's a cat or
a dog, you can't really say
that cats are less than dogs.
Or there's no really meaningful
comparison between the numbers.
It turns out, people very often forget
there is an option that classifiers have,
which is refusing to classify.
And that essentially is saying,
I don't know, and
I don't want this example to count.
In some circumstances,
that is practical and it's useful, and
it can affect performance.
So a classifier that knows when it's very
likely to make a mistake may be better off
saying, I don't know what this is, and
I've got no way of resolving the question.
Sometimes you can't allow that.
So if you're thinking about
credit card transactions,
it's not really helpful to say,
this one's good, this one's fraudulent.
And I've got no idea about this one,
and I'm not going to deal with it.
You really do need to produce a decision.
Okay, now we need to think about errors.
Imagine I have a binary classifier.
There are special names for
the errors that a binary classifier makes.
So if I have something that
should be labeled false, here,
now I can use my neat little pen.
So it should be labeled false,
and gee, I can change colors too.
But I actually labeled it true.
That's very often called a false positive.
I said it was true, but I'm wrong,
so it's a false positive.
And it's sometimes called a type I error.
Similarly, if the right answer was true,
and
I said false,
I'm going to call that a false negative.
That's sometimes called a type II error.
Now, this gives us two natural
measures of performance.
One is accuracy.
So the accuracy of a binary classifier, or
the accuracy in fact of any classifier,
is the fraction of examples that
have been correctly classified.
So I'm presented with
a whole bunch of examples.
Some fraction is classified correctly,
and that's the accuracy.
Similarly, the error
rate is the fraction of
examples that are incorrectly classified.
And you sort of expect that
accuracy equals 1 minus error rate,
just as a matter of logic.
Now, this may be news to some people,
but it's an important concept.
Classifiers are pretty much
guaranteed to make mistakes.
The question is,
can you keep the mistakes down?
So here's a little example.
An alien arrives on the planet.
They would like to be able to predict the
gender of the people they're dealing with,
which can simplify some social occasions.
And the only measurement that they
possess is the height of the person.
Now, that alien is in trouble.
So what I've done is I've plotted over
here a histogram of
heights against gender.
The blue one I believe is male.
The green one I believe is female.
And the height is in inches.
Why am I using outdated units?
Well, that's how I got the data, and
I didn't feel like transforming.
So you'll notice that the alien is
going to have to have some rule for
each height value.
And a simple rule would be to say, look,
if the height is bigger than some number,
say male, otherwise, say female.
But that alien is going to make mistakes.
So imagine the alien says,
choose a height that is bigger,
that is 60,
this looks like about 68 inches.
And so everybody on that side is male,
and everybody on that side is female.
These double hatched bars over
here are mistakes, right?
So there are males that
are shorter than 68 inches.
There are females that
are taller than 68 inches.
And the alien is going
to misclassify them.
It can't make its life easier by saying,
well, I will have a more complicated rule.
So if I say, for example,
everything bigger than
68 inches but
smaller than 70 inches is male.
There are a whole bunch of females over
here that the alien is going to get wrong.
Whatever the alien does,
it's got a problem.
Now, there is a concept
here worth mentioning.
It's kind of abstract, because we usually
can't actually know what its value is, but
it's worth knowing.
Imagine I have a particular
set of features.
And imagine for some reason,
I know the best possible rule.
The error that I encounter when I
use the best possible rule with that
set of features is called the Bayes error.
So in this case, the Bayes error is
going to be, if I choose the best possible
rule, it's probably choose a high
threshold somewhere round about there.
Everybody that side is male,
everybody that side is female.
And you can see I've got a sort
of pictorial representation
of the Bayes error.
Because it's going to be the fraction
of females on this side,
so the area under these bars, and
the fraction of males on that side,
the area under those bars,
this one gets split.
Usually we can't know this.
Now, the reason we usually can't know this
is we usually don't know what the best
possible rule is with
a given set of features.
But the important thing is,
it's usually not zero.
Now, we now have a problem.
We usually can't know the best possible
accuracy for a classifier on a problem.
So we don't really know whether
the one we have is good or not.
I will measure its accuracy, and
I'll say, well, is that good?
And the answer is, I don't know.
There are several ways to
get out of this problem.
One is to say, it's good enough for
my purpose, so
I'm not going to worry about the question.
And that is, in fact,
a very sensible answer.
There are many times where something
that has 90% accuracy is wonderful.
And going from 90 to 92% doesn't matter
to anyone, you just get on with it and
use it.
But there is another strategy,
which is you could compare to
some other natural method.
That natural method is called a baseline.
And that baseline you sort of have
to choose with sensible judgment.
So it might be another classifier or
another kind of classifier.
It might be chance.
So chance says, I'm just going to assign
examples to class uniformly and at random.
So for example, chance would get
me 50% accuracy for a balanced,
two-class problem.
If I have as many ones as I have minus
ones, and I assign them at random,
I'm going to get half of them right.
Notice, by the way,
that a binary classifier is
at least 50% accurate, right?
Why?
Because if it's less than 50% accurate,
I could always flip the bit and do better.
Another version or
another plausible baseline is you assign
every example to the most common class.
This can be very hard to beat.
So imagine you have 99% honest
credit card transactions and
1% fraudulent transactions.
You can then say,
every transaction is honest, and
any classifier that has to beat
that has to be really, really good.
So assigning to the most common class can
be hard to beat, and it's a good baseline.
In summary, a classifier accepts a feature
representation and makes a label.
Classifiers are important and
widely useful.
Classifiers are usually learned from data.
And every problem has some
inevitable minimum error,
which is usually known as the Bayes error.
The problem with this is the Bayes
error is hardly ever known.
Finally, it's usual to compare
error to something else,
because you don't know the Bayes error.
So you might compare error to,
for example, a baseline.
And I gave a variety of
different baselines.